---
title: Use Existing OCaml Libraries
---

> This section is reserved for advanced usages. Usually, you would pick an OCaml/Reason library that is already configured to work with our higher-level build system `bsb`,i.e., it already has a `bsconfig.json`; if it does not, you would usually add a `bsconfig.json` to it. But if you want to directly use an OCaml package that is not part of the NPM workflow, or are building some quirky infrastructure with BuckleScript, keep reading!

This guide is also a small walkthrough of how `bsb` works under the hood.

## Built in NPM support

### Build an OCaml Library as a NPM Package

**Note**: this section might be slightly stale. If any of the steps are not working, please file an issue! Thanks.

**We highly recommend** you try this endeavour on a dependency-less library first. It will avoid lots of trouble.

BuckleScript's compiler, `bsc`, extends the OCaml compiler options with several flags to provide a better experience for NPM users.

In general, you are expected to see two kinds of build artifacts: the generated JS files and metadata that your OCaml dependencies rely on.

Since CommonJS has no namespaces, to allow JS files to live in different directories, we have a flag:

```sh
bsc.exe -bs-package-name $npm_package_name -bs-package-output modulesystem:path/to/your/js/dir -c a.ml
```

By passing this flag, `bsc.exe` will store your `package_name` and relative path to `package.json` in `.cmj` files. It will also generate JS files in the directory you specified. You can, and are encouraged to, store JavaScript files in a hierarchical directory.

For the binary artifacts the convention is to store all `*.cm` data in a *single* directory, `package.json/lib/ocaml`, and the Javascript files in a *hierachical* directory like `package.json/lib/js`. (Note that this is not necessary if you only want your libraries to be consumed by JS developers, which has benefit since end users don’t need this binary data any more.)

### Use an OCaml Library as a NPM Package

If you follow the layout convention above, using an OCaml package is pretty straightforward:

```sh
bsc.exe -I path/to/ocaml/package/installed -c a.ml
```

### Together

Your command line would be like this:

```sh
bsc.exe -I path/to/ocaml/package1/installed -I path/to/ocaml/package2/installed  -bs-package-name $npm_package_name -bs-package-output commonjs:path/to/lib/js/ -c a.ml
```

### Examples

You can see a more elaborate `bsc` setup like so:

```sh
bsb -init dummy-project
cd dummy-project
npm run build
cat lib/bs/build.ninja
```

The [Ninja](https://ninja-build.org) file, generated by `bsb`, describes the exact steps needed to build a trivial project using `bsc`.

Additionally, please consult https://github.com/chenglou/intro-to-reason-compilation, which covers the lowest-level [Reason](https://reasonml.github.io) and BuckleScript compilation mechanisms.
